# Heart-Attack-Prediction

According to statistics published by the World Health Organization (WHO), death occurs each year related to heart dieses problem is 17.9 million which is around 31% of all deaths occurs every year. It is difficult for healthcare professional to predict early stage of heart attack with high accuracy as it depends on many factors. To get the early prediction of heart dieses with high accuracy, we can use machine learning approach and artificial intelligence system approach which uses medical data. This study focused on the different machine learning approach and deep learning approach to get the prediction accuracy and proposed the Convolution Neural Network (CNN) with Long-Short Term Memory Network (LSTM) to get high prediction accuracy. Total 13 medical features were used as input to the machine learning algorithms such as Logistic Regression, K-nearest neighbor (KNN), Decision Tree, Random Forest, Support Vector Machine (SVM) and Artificial Neural Network (ANN). Proposed model trained by tuning the parameter such as learning rate, different activation function and used Backpropagation and Early stopping methods which observed 94% prediction accuracy of heart dieses presence in patient. 

The dataset used for making prediction of early heart dieses referred from UCI repository. Cleveland dataset is widely used dataset for research work. This dataset contains 303 instances and total 75 attributes, but out of all attributes, only 14 attributes are preferred for making prediction. The dataset has some missing values and the instances with missing value have been removed from the dataset.

